Ered Duath By-Laws 4.0 Adapted 3/5/2022
Mission Statement:
The purpose of this organization, The Realm of Ered Duath, shall be to promote interest and physical participation in Belegarth, a nationwide medieval fighting society that facilitates elements of fantasy and medieval combat along with studies of the arts and sciences, leadership, and service. This organization shall do so by providing a wide variety or programs and activities to help educate members and the surrounding community. While the main aspect of Belegarth is a full contact medieval combat sport this all inclusive group is dedicated to educating, offering socialization, as well as providing a safe and healthy physical activity.
Article 1: Membership
1.1. Active Members are individuals that show up to official fighter practices on a consistent basis, at least once a month, show active participation on or off the field, and follow the guidelines and rules of the Realm of Ered Duath and the Belegarth Medieval Combat Society (BMCS).
1.1.1. To have a vote in realm elections or referendums voters must be Active Members of Ered Duath.
1.2. Members should acquire their own weapons and minimum garb. If minimum garb is not worn the player will be limited to using a single Class I weapon.
1.3. The minimum age of participation on the field of battle and membership is 14 years of age. All minor participants are required to turn in a notarized hold harmless to realm leadership. Realm event attendance is 16+ with a signed event waiver, 18+ to camp overnight without a legal guardian or parent present.
1.4. All members and non-members participating in any fashion must sign a hold harmless and have it on file.
1.5. Basic realm member responsibilities are as follows:
1.5.1. Be courteous to all realm members regardless of relation, personal acquaintance or sentiment and to treat each member equally without bias.
1.5.2. Follow the rules as laid out in the Book of War.
1.5.3. Make sure that the field is cleaned at the end of practice
1.5.4. Learn to maintain and check their own weapons to make sure they meet safety requirements.
1.5.5. If a member or non-member has an issue with an individual on the field go to said individual, a field marshal, the head marshal, then a realm leader (in that order) with the issue after the battle is over.
1.5.6. Only checked weapons will be allowed on the field. If someone arrives late on a day when weapons check is done, that member must approach a weapons checker to have their weapons checked before fighting on the field.
Article 2: Elected Leadership
2.1. The Elect Council: Elect Councilors of the realm shall be determined by a majority vote of active members of Ered Duath.
2.1.1. Council elections will take place in June and October each year.
2.1.1.1 Members nominated for election without any opposition will be voted on by
a yes or no vote of the realm’s active members.
2.1.1.2. Nominated members must have a majority of “yes” votes to take office.
2.1.2. Each election can appoint up to two Elect Councillors.
2.1.2.1. The Prime Minister may call for an emergency election to fill vacant Elect Council seats.

 2.1.3. There shall be no more than 5 Elect Councillors, and no less than 5 whenever possible. 2.1.4. Requirements for councilors:
2.1.4.1 All councilors must be 18 or older.
2.1.4.2 Councilors must be Active Members of Ered Duath for at least three months prior to their election, and during their entire term in office.
2.1.4.3 Councilors will serve terms of two years.
2.1.4.3.1 If a Council member steps down or is removed before the end of their term and is unwilling or unable to appoint a new Council Member in their place the remaining Councilors will appoint a new Councilor.
2.3. The War Council of Ered Duath can be convened if 2/3 of the War Council are present. 2.3.1. The War Council will include Councilors, Officers, and a delegate from every eligible unit, sub-unit, squad, kingdom, house, group, or etc.
2.3.1.1. Groups with delegates on the War Council must have more than 8 active members of Ered Duath.
2.3.1.1.1. Members of Ered Duath may only claim one group that they belong to in order to count towards a War Council delegate.
2.3.1.1.2. Members of Ered Duath will declare to the Minister of Records what group they belong to for the purpose of choosing WC delegates.
2.3.2.1. Article 2.3.1 and it’s sub-articles shall be an exception to Article 4.2. Alteration of a part of the Articles of 2.3.1. will only be possible with a War Council vote with a 3/4 majority. of all active members of Ered
Duath consent unanimously to the change or amendment.
2.3.3 The War Council shall:
2.3.1. Appoint and hold leaders accountable.
2.3.2. Amend Ered Duath local rules, amend the realm bylaws when necessary, and perform any other legislative functions.
2.3.3. Will be an appeal or adjudication group of last resort within the realm. 2.3.4. Will notify realm members of meeting, and realm officers of meetings.
2.3.4.1. Realm officers may attend the War Council, but will have speaking rights only, unless they also serve as councillors or unit representatives.
2.3.4.2. The Deputy Prime Minister (or the Prime Minister in their absence) will preside over the War Council.
2.3.5. The War Council (WC) will appoint the officers of the realm: Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Records (Secretary), Minister of War (Head Marshal), Quarter Master (Weapons Checker), Public Relations Minister, and Minister of Finance with a simple majority vote.
2.4. Expectations of all leaders in Ered Duath:
2.4.1. Act in an unbiased manner on the field and treat each member fairly regardless of relation, personal acquaintance, or sentiment.
2.4.2. Leaders that have ties to or biases for a certain topic or member shall recuse themselves from council activities that involve said group or topic.
2.4.3. Leaders will ensure that a marshal is on the field during all battles.
2.4.4. Leaders will make sure that at least one Councillor, or officer is present at every official realm practice or event.
2.4.5. Leadership are expected to create a sense of inclusion and unity among all members, new fighters, non-combatants, and spectators.
2.4.5.1. Leaders will provide assistance to new fighters by means of education to locate and help get garb, weaponry, and teach the preliminary basics for combat.
2.4.6. Realm leaders will set a good example for others by following the rules as set forth by the BMCS Book of War, the BMCS and Ered Duath Bylaws, the BMCS and Ered Duath Code of Conduct, and act with courtesy and common sense.
  
 2.4.7 Publicize the realm throughout the surrounding community
2.4.8 Be accountable to the realm, the public, the BMCS, and act in the best interests of Ered Duath.
2.4.8.1. All leaders must be Active Members of Ered Duath.
2.4.8.2. Failure to maintain active status in Ered Duath, or to otherwise act as a leader as aforementioned may result in the other War Council members issuing a warning, and may subsequently be removed from their position.
2.4.8.2.1. Warnings to any leader in Ered Duath will require a majority vote of the WC excluding the said leader’s vote.
2.4.8.2.2. Leaders of Ered Duath will be given 1-3 months, as determined by the WC, to improve their behavior, or fix their membership status. 2.4.8.2.3. Leaders that fail to correct their behavior after their probationary period may be removed from office by a 2/3 vote of the War Council excluding the said leader’s vote.
2.4.8.2.4. The removed leader’s position will be filled by a simple majority vote of the WC.
Article 3: Officers of the Realm.
3.1. Prime Minister - responsible for ensuring other positions are filled and jobs are performed regardless of situation, or office, be it marshaling, welcoming new fighters, delegating, and etc. This includes any duties of the Vice President and other Ministerial positions should the need arise.
3.1.1. The Prime Minister will oversee one realm-hosted National event, or two regional events, and one fundraising activity during their term to help promote the realm.
3.2. Deputy Prime Minister - Assists the Prime Minister, and acts as the Prime Minister in their absence.
3.2.1. Can approve spending along with the inclusion of the Minister of Finance, or the Prime Minister.
3.2.2. Serves as the moderator and presides over Realm meetings and the War Council (WC).
3.3. Minister of Records
3.3.1. Responsible for note taking during official meetings.
3.3.2. Will ensure all Realm documents: the BMCS Book of War, Realm Rules, Belegarth Bylaws, Ered Duath Bylaws, the Code of Conduct (both BMCS and Realm) are available at official practices, events, War Councils, or when asked
3.3.2.1. Will make any of the realm records available, within 14 days,
to anyone who asks for them.
3.3.3. Maintains weekly rosters of attendance.
3.3.4. Maintains a list of eligible members for voting, and what group they are a member of for the purpose of appointing delegates to the WC.
3.3.5. Maintains a list of members that are eligible for seeking office, and remaining in office.
3.3.6 May appoint deputies or assistants as needed to help maintain records.
3.4 Minister of War
3.4.1. Will appoint realm marshals.
3.4.1.1. There shall be approximately one marshal fielded for every ten
fighters at realm events, and practices.
3.4.2. Will ensure realm marshals have proficient knowledge of the BMCS Book of War, and the Realm Rules.
3.4.3. Will ensure that realm marshals are performing fairly and proficiently, and will remove marshals fail to do so.

 3.4.4. Will adjudicate contested Marshal decisions, or complaints about
Marshals when called upon.
3.5 Minister of Equipment (Quarter Master)
3.5.1. Will be responsible for making sure weapons, armor, and all equipment at realm events and practices are safe and marked or recorded accordingly.
3.5.1. Will act as the Head Weapons Checker.
3.5.2. Will appoint weapons checkers and ensure all checkers have proficient understanding of the BMCS Book of War appendix of weapon checking, and other useful BMCS documents.
3.5.3. Responsible for making sure realm weapons, and equipment are present at practice and in safe working condition.
3.5.4. Will assist in helping Realm members get properly equipped.
3.6 Minister of Public Relations
3.6.1. Updates the Realm of Ered Duath FB page and any other communications, and responds to inquiries about the realm.
3.6.1.1. Serves as lead moderator on FB, presides over Discord
meetings, and other similar meetings.
3.6.2. Promotes the realm both locally and nationally.
3.6.3. Monitors communications and ensures they are appropriate and represent Ered Duath positively
3.6.4. Promotes the Realm, and Realm events and practices online,
and locally.
3.6.5. May appoint PR deputies, and assistants to act in their absence, or to assist in promoting the Realm.
3.6.6. Will sit on the BMCS War Council and represent the realm.
Article 4: Voting
3.6.6.1 Will share current issues and poll the Ered Duath WC and members about how to vote.
3.6.6.1.1 Will share sensitive information (to the greatest extent
possible) to the Ered Duath WC to determine banishment votes. 3.6.6.2 Will cast the realm’s vote on the BMCS War Council.
3.6.6.3 Will choose the second realm representative of Ered Duath in the BMCS WC.
4.1 All issues voted upon either at a meeting or official communications (Email, Social Media) will be denied or accepted by a majority vote of all active members in good standing except those items listed in 4.2.
4.2 For a vote to change the bylaws, the realm rules, or the removal of a player the vote must pass with 2/3 majority.
Article 5: Amendments
5.1.1 Amendments to the by-laws or rules of the realm must be submitted in writing to the WC before they will be considered.
5.1.2 Any member may propose an amendment to the council.
5.2 Amendments will be declared and voted on by the War Council after two weeks to allow for publication and discussion throughout the realm.
5.2.1 After that time, and a successful 2/3 vote, the amendment will be written into the by-laws and rules for the Realm of Ered Duath.
Article 6: Bans and Sanctions

 6.1 Bans of any length will be voted upon by the War Council and must pass by a 2/3 vote. 6.2.1 Grounds for an immediate ban:
6.2.1.1. Actions such as verbal threats of physical harm, assault, or battery.
6.2.2.2. Actual physical harm to individuals, equipment, or property will result in an immediate ban from the event or practice, to be followed by a War Council review
to determine ban length and severity.
6.2.2.3. Blatant disregard for Belegarth safety rules and other actions that intentionally endanger other members or spectators, or behaviors that endanger the reputation of the Realm of Ered Duath, or the sport of Belegarth may result in negative consequences, including a temporary immediate ban to be determined by any present Marshal or Realm Leader until the WC can review the matter.
6.2.2.3.1. Any Realm Leader or Marshal (either Ered Duath or a marshal or the hosting realm) may “pull” a realm member from BMCS events for the aforementioned, and institute a penalty until the WC is able to convene. 6.2.2.3.2. Non-compliance of Realm Leader decisions at events, or noncompliance with the event coordinators or marshals of the event will be taken into account by the WC review and could lead to a heavier ban or other punishment.
6.2.4 Failure to comply with the rules set by the WC of the realm could result in a ban from the fighting field or other sanctions as the council deems fit.
6.3.1 The severity and length of the ban or sanction is at the jurisdiction of the WC or a Realm Leader until the WC can convene.
6.3.2 Any WC ban will be recorded permanently in the realm records, and reported to the National BOD (per Belegarth bylaws).
Article 7: Code of Conduct
This Code of Conduct applies to all attendees and members of WoED functions and events. By participating with our realm, every participant agrees to abide by this code of conduct. Definitions of terms:
Ered Duath Leader: Anyone appointed and acting as a coordinator/medic/volunteer of an event, function, or gathering on behalf of the realm, or an appointed or elected official of record for the realm. All Ered Duath Leaders are committed to ensuring a fun, safe, and respectful environment for all attendees and members. To achieve this all participants must refrain from actions that would limit or threaten another individual’s safe enjoyment of the event by another person or societal standards.
Harassment. Harassment of any kind will not be tolerated. If you are informed your behavior is negatively effecting another attendee or member, you must stop. Harassment includes but is not limited to: offensive verbal comments concerning race; color; sex; national origin; religion; social origin; disability; relationship status; gender identity; physical appearance or body size, or deliberate intimidation. Harassment can include, stalking, restraint (i.e. disallowing an individual to leave or exit an area), assault/battery, inappropriate physical contact, unwelcome physical attention, unwelcome verbal (cat calling), physical (rubbing/bumping), or visual harassment of a sexual nature, or multiple camp/event/function disruptions. Harassment also includes all conduct including, but not limited to Rape, Sexual Assault, Lewd Conduct, Physical Bullying, and Physical Assault. Attendees who are asked to stop any harassing behavior are expected to comply immediately. If they do not, immediate corrective action may be taken by official representatives.
Consent: Informed consent is required for any activity, by any individual. When intoxicated, an individual cannot legally consent. Nor can someone consent if they are unconscious. Consent

 may be withdrawn at any moment by an individual. Just because you consent one time does not mean you consent to any future act.
Reporting Harassment: Anyone can report harassment. If you are being harassed, or notice that someone else is being harassed, or have any other concerns, please contact an Ered Duath Officer immediately so that the matter can be handled in an expeditious manner. Reporting Safety Concerns and/or Medical Emergencies: If you are having or witness a safety concern or medical emergency, seek out an Ered Duath Officer immediately. Try not to leave someone with an emergency alone, if possible instruct someone close by to get help. This may include, but not be limited to calling 911, getting event staff, or yelling for help.
Procedure for Handling of Reported Issues: Ered Duath Officers are dedicated to creating a fair and expedient means of dealing with any and all instances that are brought to our attention. All attendees/members will be given an opportunity to give their version of events before any action is taken by the Ered Duath Leadership or the WC. After all the information regarding an incident is collected, the WC will then decide on disciplinary action if such action is deemed necessary. Ered Duath Officers will decide on the appropriate course to take depending on the situation.
Penalties: Depending on the severity of the incident, disciplinary action for violations of this code of conduct may include, but are not limited to the following: Explanations and/or warnings. Mediation between involved parties. Moving individual or groups to a different location. Removal from an Ered Duath Event/Function/or Membership. Being barred from attending future Ered Duath events/Functions, or such action as deemed appropriate by Ered Duath Officers and the WC (as soon as possible). If an incident that is reported to Ered Duath involves a suspected violation of any local, state or federal laws, Ered Duath Officers will report the incident to the police immediately. This policy is meant to provide added protection for our members and event attendees. Nothing in this policy should ever be interpreted to deter any participant from seeking legal advice or making a report to the local authorities.
Ered Duath Progressive Discipline Policy: For violations of the Ered Duath Code of Conduct the following progressive discipline will be in effect.
A verbal warning issued to the offender to cease the violating behavior(s) with a warning that continuation of the offending behavior(s) will result in further disciplinary action. This will be noted in the realm’s disciplinary records.
A written warning to the offender to cease the violating behavior(s) with a warning that continuation of the offending behavior(s) will result in further disciplinary action. The offender(s) will receive a copy of the notice, and a copy will be maintained in the realm's disciplinary records.
A 1-practice suspension with a written warning for the offender to cease the violating behavior(s) with a warning that continuation of the offending behavior(s) will result in further disciplinary action. The offender(s) will receive a copy of the notice, and a copy will be maintained in the realm's disciplinary records.
A 1-month suspension from all realm events with a written warning for the offender to cease the violating behavior(s) with a warning that continuation of the offending behavior(s) will result in further disciplinary action. The offender(s) will receive a copy of the notice, and a copy will be maintained in the realm's disciplinary records.
A 6-month suspension from all realm events with a written warning for the offender to cease the violating behavior(s) with a warning that continuation of the offending behavior(s) will result in further disciplinary action. The offender(s) will receive a copy of the notice, and a copy will be maintained in the realm's disciplinary records.
An indefinite ban from all realm events with a written warning for the offender to cease the violating behavior(s) with a warning that continuation of the offending behavior(s) will result in further disciplinary action. The offender(s) will receive a copy of the notice, and a copy will be

 maintained in the realm's disciplinary records. Offenders of the WoED code of conduct who receive a ban from the realm may submit a written request to appeal their ban after 1 year from the receipt of the ban. Offenders of the WoED code of conduct who commit legal violations that endanger the welfare of others will not be permitted to appeal their ban, nor to return to the realm.
While the realm council should default to following progressive discipline for minor violations of the code of conduct that do not pose a serious threat to the welfare of others, the WC may begin discipline at any level of discipline for major offenses by a 2⁄3 majority vote.
All discipline will be carried out by the President of the realm, the Vice President, any realm leader, or a relevant Group Leader if a realm leader is unable to respond in a timely manner, or if a realm leader is the offender.
Copies of disciplinary documents will be maintained in a "discipline" file in the realm. An announcement will be made on the Realm of Ered Duath Facebook discussion page regarding individuals receiving suspensions or bans. A public disciplinary record will be maintained in the files of the Realm of Ered Duath listing banned individuals.

